Readme.md, before:

Joyce Robbins
10/1/2021

# ggformat

This is a one function addin package. My motivation in writing it was to
make it easier to clean up and style **ggplot2** code.

## Installation

`remotes::install_github("jtr13/ggformat")`

## Usage

Highlight code thats produce a single **ggplot2** graph, run the addin
“Format ggplot2 code”, and the code will be cleaned up and styled. For
example,

    mtcars %>% ggplot(aes(y = mpg)) + ggtitle("mtcars") + facet_wrap(~gear) + geom_boxplot()

will become:

    mtcars %>%
        ggplot(aes(y = mpg)) +
        geom_boxplot() +
        facet_wrap(~gear) +
        ggtitle("mtcars")

## What the styled code looks like

-   `%>%`s are followed by line breaks

-   Each **ggplot2** function appears on its own line followed by a `+`.
    Misplaced `+`s, such as after the last function, are removed.

-   **ggplot2** functions are sorted in the following order, based on
    the **ggplot2** template (see cheatsheet):

<!-- -->

    ##  [1] "ggplot"  "geom_"   "stat_"   "coord_"  "facet_"  "scale_"  "xlim"   
    ##  [8] "ylim"    "ggtitle" "labs"    "xlab"    "ylab"    "theme_"  "theme"

-   If there are multiple instances of a function type, for example,
    multiple geoms, the current order is preserved.

## How it differs from other formatting packages

-   Neither **formatR** nor **styler** change the order of the
    **ggplot2** functions.

-   **formatR** does not add line breaks after `+`s in **ggplot2** code.

-   **styler** reformats long lines by placing putting each argument on
    its own line and indenting, for example:

<!-- -->

    ggplot() +
        geom_ribbon(data = ribbon, aes(
            ymin = min,
            ymax = max,
            x = x.ribbon,
            fill = 'lightgreen'
        )) +
        geom_line(data = ribbon, aes(x = x.ribbon, y = avg, color = 'black')) +
        geom_line(data = data, aes(x = x, y = new.data, color = 'red')) +
        scale_fill_identity(name = 'the fill',
                            guide = 'legend',
                            labels = c('m1')) +
        scale_colour_manual(
            name = 'the colour',
            values = c('black' = 'black', 'red' = 'red'),
            labels = c('c2', 'c1')
        ) +
        xlab('x') +
        ylab('density')

**ggformat** styles this code as:

    ggplot() +
        geom_ribbon(data = ribbon, aes(ymin = min, ymax = max, x = x.ribbon, fill = 'lightgreen')) +
        geom_line(data = ribbon, aes(x = x.ribbon, y = avg, color = 'black')) +
        geom_line(data = data, aes(x = x, y = new.data, color = 'red')) +
        scale_fill_identity(name = 'the fill', guide = 'legend', labels = c('m1')) +
        scale_colour_manual(name = 'the colour', values = c('black' = 'black', 'red' = 'red'), labels = c('c2', 'c1')) +
        xlab('x') +
        ylab('density')

Note: I hope to add wrapping so long lines are broken apart after
commas:

    # NOT YET IMPLEMENTED
    ggplot() +
        geom_ribbon(data = ribbon, aes(ymin = min, ymax = max, x = x.ribbon,
            fill = 'lightgreen')) +
        geom_line(data = ribbon, aes(x = x.ribbon, y = avg, color = 'black')) +
        geom_line(data = data, aes(x = x, y = new.data, color = 'red')) +
        scale_fill_identity(name = 'the fill', guide = 'legend', labels = c('m1')) +
        scale_colour_manual(name = 'the colour', values = c('black' = 'black',
            'red' = 'red'), labels = c('c2', 'c1')) +
        xlab('x') +
        ylab('density')

I welcome your suggestions for improvements.

Commit message:

handles pipes in multiple lines, add comments to code

Readme.md, after:

Joyce Robbins
10/1/2021

# ggformat

This is a one function addin package. My motivation in writing it was to
make it easier to clean up and style **ggplot2** code.

## Installation

`remotes::install_github("jtr13/ggformat")`

## Usage

Highlight code thats produce a single **ggplot2** graph, run the addin
“Format ggplot2 code”, and the code will be cleaned up and styled. For
example,

    mtcars %>% ggplot(aes(y = mpg)) + ggtitle("mtcars") + facet_wrap(~gear) + geom_boxplot()

will become:

    mtcars %>%
        ggplot(aes(y = mpg)) +
        geom_boxplot() +
        facet_wrap(~gear) +
        ggtitle("mtcars")

## What the styled code looks like

-   `%>%`s are followed by line breaks

-   Each **ggplot2** function appears on its own line followed by a `+`.
    Misplaced `+`s, such as after the last function, are removed.

-   **ggplot2** functions are sorted in the following order, based on
    the **ggplot2** template (see cheatsheet):

<!-- -->

    ##  [1] "%>%"     "ggplot"  "geom_"   "stat_"   "coord_"  "facet_"  "scale_" 
    ##  [8] "xlim"    "ylim"    "ggtitle" "labs"    "xlab"    "ylab"    "theme_" 
    ## [15] "theme"

-   If there are multiple instances of a function type, for example,
    multiple geoms, the current order is preserved.

## How it differs from other formatting packages

-   Neither **formatR** nor **styler** change the order of the
    **ggplot2** functions.

-   **formatR** does not add line breaks after `+`s in **ggplot2** code.

-   **styler** reformats long lines by placing putting each argument on
    its own line and indenting, for example:

<!-- -->

    ggplot() +
        geom_ribbon(data = ribbon, aes(
            ymin = min,
            ymax = max,
            x = x.ribbon,
            fill = 'lightgreen'
        )) +
        geom_line(data = ribbon, aes(x = x.ribbon, y = avg, color = 'black')) +
        geom_line(data = data, aes(x = x, y = new.data, color = 'red')) +
        scale_fill_identity(name = 'the fill',
                            guide = 'legend',
                            labels = c('m1')) +
        scale_colour_manual(
            name = 'the colour',
            values = c('black' = 'black', 'red' = 'red'),
            labels = c('c2', 'c1')
        ) +
        xlab('x') +
        ylab('density')

**ggformat** styles this code as:

    ggplot() +
        geom_ribbon(data = ribbon, aes(ymin = min, ymax = max, x = x.ribbon, fill = 'lightgreen')) +
        geom_line(data = ribbon, aes(x = x.ribbon, y = avg, color = 'black')) +
        geom_line(data = data, aes(x = x, y = new.data, color = 'red')) +
        scale_fill_identity(name = 'the fill', guide = 'legend', labels = c('m1')) +
        scale_colour_manual(name = 'the colour', values = c('black' = 'black', 'red' = 'red'), labels = c('c2', 'c1')) +
        xlab('x') +
        ylab('density')

Note: I hope to add wrapping so long lines are broken apart after
commas:

    # NOT YET IMPLEMENTED
    ggplot() +
        geom_ribbon(data = ribbon, aes(ymin = min, ymax = max, x = x.ribbon,
            fill = 'lightgreen')) +
        geom_line(data = ribbon, aes(x = x.ribbon, y = avg, color = 'black')) +
        geom_line(data = data, aes(x = x, y = new.data, color = 'red')) +
        scale_fill_identity(name = 'the fill', guide = 'legend', labels = c('m1')) +
        scale_colour_manual(name = 'the colour', values = c('black' = 'black',
            'red' = 'red'), labels = c('c2', 'c1')) +
        xlab('x') +
        ylab('density')

## Known issues

-   Doesn’t wrap long lines

-   Can’t handle package namespacing such as \``ggalluvial::geom_flow()`

-   Can’t handle comments (puts them before `+`)

I welcome your suggestions for improvements.

## Acknowledgements

The blog post [“strsplit – but keeping the
delimiter”](https://www.statworx.com/de/blog/strsplit-but-keeping-the-delimiter/)
by Jakob Gepp was helpful for formulating `strsplit()` splits that keep
the search terms.
